U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
CHARTER OF THE
ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON COMMERCIAL REMOTE SENSING

Establishment

The Secretary ofcommeroe, having determined it is in the public interest in connection with the
perfomtanoe ofduries imposed on the Department by law and with the concurrence ofthe
General Services Administration. established the National Oceanic and Acmosphaic
Administration (NOAA) Advisory Committee on Commercial Remote Sensing (ACCRES)_
pursuant to the Federal Advisory Committee Act, 5 U.S.C.. App. This Committee serves as a
component of the President's National Space Policy, which encourages U.S. commercial
leadership in space activities.

Scope

The Committee provides infomtation. advice. and recommendations to the Under Secretary of
Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere (the Under Secretary) on matters relating no the U.S.
commercial remote-sensing industry and NOAA‘s activities to carry out the responsibilities of
the Department ofCommerce set forth in the Land Remote Sensing Policy Act ofl992

(15 U.S.C. §§ 5621-5625). The Committee ﬁtnotjons solely in an advisory capacity and in
accordance with the provisions ofthe Federal Advisory Committee Act. The Committee does
not exercise program management or regulatory development responsibilities, not make any
decisions directly affecting the programs on which it provides advice. The Committee provides
a forum for the development, consideration. and communication ofinformation from a
knowledgeable. independent perspective.

Objectives and Duties

1. The ACCRES undertakes such information gathering activities as necessary to deﬁne
issues submitted by NOAA for oonsidaation by the Committee. develop positions on
those issues. and present the Committee‘: positions to the Under Secretary.

2. The ACCRES evaluates economic, technological. and institutional developments relating
to commercial remote sensing and submits to the Under Secretary recommendations on
promising new ideas and approaches for federal policies and programs.

3. The ACCRES serves as a forum for the discussion of issues involving the relationship
between industry activities and government policies, progarns. and regulatory
requirements.